As a developer, understanding the fundamentals of the design tools used within your team is an essential skill. The notorious war between
developers and designers is never-ending and design tools are the places where these two worlds collide. This raises the importance of using
good design tools which provide a nice connection between the design and development process. Imagine if all of the screen designs,
components, different assets were stored on Google Drive and the review process and communication was handled through email / Slack. To get
a single component you'll have to go through several folders and then you'll have to open your email / Slack to remind yourself about the
discussions you had about the implementation. This isn't a big deal if you have to do it once in a day, however, this is a continuous
process. Eventually the project grows, new designs are requested, new folders and files are added and all of a sudden, handling the designs
like this sounds like a nightmare, right?

Figma is a cloud-based design tool which provides a simple, effective and intuitive functionalities perfect for team collaboration. Similar
to Google Docs, team members can easily communicate, collaborate and edit the same file in Figma in real time.

## Benefits of using Figma

- **Simple and intuitive**

Most of us are already very familiar with using tools like Google Docs and Figma isn't much different from them. First-time Figma users can
get quickly adjusted to using Figma and it won't take too long before they understand most of its functionalities.

- **Easier team collaboration and communication**

Communication and collaboration within Figma is extremely easy and convenient since Figma allows you to leave comments on the designs.
Discussions can be opened in the comment's thread and if you have the right permissions for it, you could also @mention certain people in
order to get a faster response from the discussion-relevant team members.

- **Everything you need is at one place**

Screen designs, components, assets, styles, comments, discussions and so much more can be found within a single Figma file. No need to
include any third-party tools (unless the team feels like they would benefit from them), so basically, for all UI related stuff you might
need, you can refer to the Figma file. You want it, you open Figma, you got it, no further actions needed. :)

- **Platform flexibility**

If you have any operating system and you run any web browser, you are ready to use Figma. You can share, open, edit Figma files through your
web browser without any additional setup. The universality of Figma means that the design work will be available to everyone despite the
platform they are using.

- **Flexible user permissions management**

Each person can have either a view or an edit access to the Figma files. Additionally, the admin and owner roles can be set accordingly. All
of the permissions can be easily managed and customized as desired. For a more detailed description about Figma team permissions and what
different access modes entail, take a look at the following [link](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039970673-Team-permissions).

## Figma essentials

Let's take a look at some of the things which you'll probably be using very frequently as a developer.

### Frames

![Figma Frames](/img/figma_frames.png "Frames in Figma")

Frames in Figma serve as top-level containers for most elements in Figma. Usually each screen has a separate frame and they are all listed
on the left side in Figma as shown in the image above. In this example project the frames are located in the Layers tab, however, keep in
mind that this is customizable and the tab namings in your project might differ from this project's conventions (for example, you might have
a Pages tab rather than a Layers tab). What's important is to know the fundamentals and what Figma provides as functionalities and then
minor things like naming conventions and way of structuring stuff within the team is easily manageable.

Each frame can be expanded and its sub-frames and elements will be shown as in the Register frame on the image above. You can click around
and explore what each frame consists of. You can select a particular frame or an element from the frame directly on the designs as well.

### Code inspection, layout measurements and constraints, exporting

### Comments and discussions
